= WrapExcel

== Description

WrapExcel is a to wrap the win32ole, and easy to use Excel operations with ruby.

== Requirements

* ruby 1.9.2 or higher (platform is windows)

== Install

  gem install wrap_excel

== Usage
=== access book

Read with block.

  WrapExcel::Book.open('./sample.xls') do |book|
    # do something
  end

Read without block.

  book = WrapExcel::Book.open('./sample.xls')
  book.close

Options are the following.

* read_only:: boolean default true
* displayalerts:: boolean default false
* visible:: boolean false

=== access sheet

Sheet object can access with #[] method.

  sheet = book[0]

Access with sheet name.

    book['Sheet1']

=== access row or column

Sheet object is included enumerable. Use #each_column or #each_row or #each method.

  sheet.each do |cell|
    # do something with cell
    # read every row every column
  end

  sheet.each_row do |row|
    # do something with row_range
  end

  sheet.each_column do |column_range|
    # do something with column_range
  end

=== access cell

Read from sheet object.

  sheet[0, 0]  => first cell.

Read from range object

  row_range[0]  => first cell in row_range
  column_range[1] => second cell in column_range

=== write excel

Can save an existing file.

  WrapExcel::Book.open('./sample.xls') do |book|
    # do something
    book.save
  end

or

  book = WrapExcel::Book.open('./sample.xls')
  book.save
  book.close

Can not save new file.

=== Want to do more things

All WrapExcel object include win32ole instance. If you want to do something that not provide a function, you can use win32ole methods.

== Support

Report issues and feature requests to github Issues. [https://github.com/tomiacannondale/wrap_excel/issues]

== Collaborate

Please pull request on github.

== Author

tomi [tomiacannondale@gmail.com]

== License

MIT License. For more imformation, please see LICENSE.
